
## Overview

This concept will help you understand Data structures in JS

## Learning Outcome

- What is a data structure?
- Why do we need to structure the data?


### Data structrure

A **data structure** is a data organization, management, and storage format that enables efficient access and modification. More precisely, a data structure is a collection of data values, the relationships among them, and the functions or operations that can be applied to the data.

#### What you must do?

*Onboarding*

- Read about various [Array Methods](https://javascript.info/array-methods) used for manipulating and accessing data.
- Read about all you need to know about JS Data structures in parts
	- [Data structures in JS](https://medium.com/siliconwat/data-structures-in-javascript-1b9aed0ea17c)
	- [Data structures in JS Part 1](https://blog.bitsrc.io/data-structures-in-javascript-part-1-8231c9a4bc8b)
	- [Data structures in JS Part 2](https://blog.bitsrc.io/data-structures-in-javascript-part-2-d0d09b761df0)

*Code Exercises*

- If you haven't, solve the corresponding assignment in the links



### Assessment Quiz

1. Which method should be used to push an element at the end of the array?
- `shift`
- `push` [Correct Answer]
- `slice`
- `unshift`

2. Which of these for loops would iterate through each item of the nums array (no more, no less)?
- `for (var i = 0; i < nums; i++) { }`
- `for (var i = 1; i < nums.length; i++) { }`
- `for (var i = 1; i < nums; i++) { }`
- `for (var i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) { }` [Correct Answer]

3. Which method would help me find the position of an element in an array?

- [].indexOf
- [].pos
- [].findPos
- [].indexSearch

4.  How can I create a new array of the number `2` from an existing array of mixed numbers?
- `Filter`
- `for`
- `map`
-  `all of them` [Correct Answer]

5. Say, I have an array of objects with property name `age` How can I find a particular object whose property value matches the age 22?
- [].find [Correct Answer]
- [].indexOf
- [].match
- [].search
